# The Well Architected Framework
AWS Well-Architected Framework is a tool that uses best practices to find improvements for your applications in the cloud.

It helps you in six areas:

1. __Operational excellence:__  
The ability to support development and run workloads effectively, gain insight into their operations, and to continuously improve supporting processes and procedures to deliver business value.
2. __Security:__  
The security pillar describes how to take advantage of cloud technologies to protect data, systems, and assets in a way that can improve your security posture.
3. __Reliability:__  
The reliability pillar encompasses the ability of a workload to perform its intended function correctly and consistently when it’s expected to. This includes the ability to operate and test the workload through its total lifecycle. This paper provides in-depth, best practice guidance for implementing reliable workloads on AWS.
4. __Performance efficiency:__  
The ability to use computing resources efficiently to meet system requirements, and to maintain that efficiency as demand changes and technologies evolve.
5. __Cost optimization:__   
The ability to run systems to deliver business value at the lowest price point.
6. __Sustainability:__   
The ability to continually improve sustainability impacts by reducing energy consumption and increasing efficiency across all components of a workload by maximizing the benefits from the provisioned resources and minimizing the total resources required.

Those areas are also called the six pillars of AWS Well-Architected Framework. It provides a way for you to consistently measure your architectures against best practices and identify areas for improvement. When architecting workloads, you make trade-offs between pillars based on your business context. These business decisions can drive your engineering priorities.

The Framework provides a set of questions that allows you to review an existing or proposed architecture. It also provides a set of AWS best practices for each pillar. Using the Framework in your architecture will help you produce stable and efficient systems, which allow you to focus on your functional requirements.  

### Sources
* https://www.w3schools.com/aws/aws_cloudessentials_clo_awswellarchitectedframework.php 
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vTjasx3ahjM 
* https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/framework/welcome.html

